README.md, before:

# datepicker.js [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/nsommer/datepicker.js.svg?token=9wV4WzAqZguZ8pXfLL8k&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/nsommer/datepicker.js)

All existing datepicker libraries suck, so I wrote my own.

datepicker.js

* **Is not infinitely configurable**, therefore small (~**5.5KB** JS, ~**2.5KB** CSS)
* **Requires zero configuration**, it can be enabled and to some extend customized through HTML5 data attributes
* **Uses semantic markup** to take advantage of HTML5's expressiveness
* **Exposes expressive CSS selectors**, to easily swap styles. Write styles for the datepicker that match your UI theme within minutes.
* **Requires jQuery**
* **Supports keyboard shortcuts**

To give you some context: This library is less than 300 lines of JavaScript, the datepicker file of jquery-ui is over 2000 lines of JavaScript ...

## Usage

The datepicker requires a `.datepicker-container` container around the input for easier styling and event delegation. `data-toggle="datepicker"` automatically enables the datepicker on an input field, no other javascript required.

```html
<div class="datepicker-container">
  <input type="date" data-toggle="datepicker" data-position="top">
</div>
```

Don't forget to include the stylesheet, the javascript and jquery!

## Custom styles

The styles for the datepicker widget are found in `scss/_widget.scss`.

The most important style values such as colors, type size etc. are stored in variables with `!default` annotations in `scss/_variables.scss`.

To change the look and feel of the widget - for example to use your application's brand colors - set the corresponding variables **before** importing `datepicker.scss`. This is a popular technique to customize CSS frameworks that use a preprocessor (SASS, LESS).

**Note**: The default styles are written with under the assumption that [normalize.css](https://github.com/necolas/normalize.css/) is included into the page. 

## JavaScript API

The datepicker is intentionally designed to be used without any custom JavaScript. Enabling and configuring it is done entirely by using HTML5 `data-*` attributes.

However, you can still access the datepicker instance and interact with it, if you need to. This is done by the jQuery plugin.

```javascript
var datepicker = $("#my-datepicker").datepicker()

// Get the selected day as Date object
datepicker.getDate()

// Get the selected date as ISO8601
datepicker.getDateAsString()

// Set a new date
datepicker.setDate(new Date())

// Hide or open it
datepicker.hide()
datepicker.show()

// Rerender the widget (e.g. after modifying the date)
datepicker.rerenderView()

// Write the current date back to the input field
datepicker.updateInputVal()

// Jump a day backwards or forwards
datepicker.previousDay()
datepicker.nextDay()

// Jump a week backwards or forwards
datepicker.previousWeek()
datepicker.nextWeek()

// Jump a month backwards or forwards
datepicker.previousMonth()
datepicker.nextMonth()
```

## Browser Support

Well, IE sucks ...

... however, this library doesn't use any ES6 or other *very new* standards, so it might work on older IEs as well (if you try, tell me about it).

## Development

```bash
git clone https://github.com/nsommer/datepicker.js.git
cd datepicker
npm install
grunt build
```

The Gruntfile provides some useful tasks you can use.

| Task | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `grunt build` | Builds the js and css files including minified versions and source maps. |
| `grunt watch` | Watches for file changes and rebuilds. |
| `grunt clean` | Cleans shit away. |
| `grunt server` | Serves the working directory via HTTP at port 8000. |
| `grunt test` | Runs the tests. |

All tasks, except `connect` and `test`, can be suffixed with `:js` or `:css` to only apply the task to the JavaScript or to the Stylesheets respectively.

## License

The source code and documentation of this project is available under the MIT license.

Commit message:

Add installation instructions to README.md

README.md, after:

# datepicker.js [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/nsommer/datepicker.js.svg?token=9wV4WzAqZguZ8pXfLL8k&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/nsommer/datepicker.js)

All existing datepicker libraries suck, so I wrote my own.

datepicker.js

* **Is not infinitely configurable**, therefore small (~**5.5KB** JS, ~**2.5KB** CSS)
* **Requires zero configuration**, it can be enabled and to some extend customized through HTML5 data attributes
* **Uses semantic markup** to take advantage of HTML5's expressiveness
* **Exposes expressive CSS selectors**, to easily swap styles. Write styles for the datepicker that match your UI theme within minutes.
* **Requires jQuery**
* **Supports keyboard shortcuts**

To give you some context: This library is less than 300 lines of JavaScript, the datepicker file of jquery-ui is over 2000 lines of JavaScript ...

## Installation

Unfortunately, all common datepicker names are already reserved in the npm package repository. However, both npm and bower - the two most popular JavaScript package managers - support installation from GitHub repository.

```bash
# If you use npm
npm install --save-dev nsommer/datepicker.js

# If you use bower
bower install nsommer/datepicker.js --save
```

## Usage

The datepicker requires a `.datepicker-container` container around the input for easier styling and event delegation. `data-toggle="datepicker"` automatically enables the datepicker on an input field, no other JavaScript required.

```html
<div class="datepicker-container">
  <input type="date" data-toggle="datepicker" data-position="top">
</div>
```

Don't forget to include the stylesheet, the JavaScript and jquery!

## Custom styles

The styles for the datepicker widget are found in `scss/_widget.scss`.

The most important style values such as colors, type size etc. are stored in variables with `!default` annotations in `scss/_variables.scss`.

To change the look and feel of the widget - for example to use your application's brand colors - set the corresponding variables **before** importing `datepicker.scss`. This is a popular technique to customize CSS frameworks that use a preprocessor (SASS, LESS).

**Note**: The default styles are written with under the assumption that [normalize.css](https://github.com/necolas/normalize.css/) is included into the page. 

## JavaScript API

The datepicker is intentionally designed to be used without any custom JavaScript. Enabling and configuring it is done entirely by using HTML5 `data-*` attributes.

However, you can still access the datepicker instance and interact with it, if you need to. This is done by the jQuery plugin.

```javascript
var datepicker = $("#my-datepicker").datepicker()

// Get the selected day as Date object
datepicker.getDate()

// Get the selected date as ISO8601
datepicker.getDateAsString()

// Set a new date
datepicker.setDate(new Date())

// Hide or open it
datepicker.hide()
datepicker.show()

// Rerender the widget (e.g. after modifying the date)
datepicker.rerenderView()

// Write the current date back to the input field
datepicker.updateInputVal()

// Jump a day backwards or forwards
datepicker.previousDay()
datepicker.nextDay()

// Jump a week backwards or forwards
datepicker.previousWeek()
datepicker.nextWeek()

// Jump a month backwards or forwards
datepicker.previousMonth()
datepicker.nextMonth()
```

## Browser Support

Well, IE sucks ...

... however, this library doesn't use any ES6 or other *very new* standards, so it might work on older IEs as well (if you try, tell me about it).

## Development

```bash
git clone https://github.com/nsommer/datepicker.js.git
cd datepicker
npm install
grunt build
```

The Gruntfile provides some useful tasks you can use.

| Task | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `grunt build` | Builds the js and css files including minified versions and source maps. |
| `grunt watch` | Watches for file changes and rebuilds. |
| `grunt clean` | Cleans shit away. |
| `grunt server` | Serves the working directory via HTTP at port 8000. |
| `grunt test` | Runs the tests. |

All tasks, except `connect` and `test`, can be suffixed with `:js` or `:css` to only apply the task to the JavaScript or to the Stylesheets respectively.

## License

The source code and documentation of this project is available under the MIT license.
